## Blog Post 1

**What do you think being a data scientist is about?** 
In general, being a data scientist involves managing, analyzing, and interpreting large volumes of data to inform decision-making.

**What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?**
Some of the major duties of a data scientist include collecting, cleaning, and organizing data, as well as developing and implementing data models and deriving meaningful insights. Knowledge areas include programming languages such as SAS, R, Python, and SQL, data visualization, machine learning, and statistics.

**What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?**
Statisticians and data scientists have very similar roles overall but there are also some key differences. The main similarities involve many of the technical skills and knowledge areas listed above. Both need to be well-versed in math/statistics, be able to utilize different programming languages, be familiar with machine learning, and have stong data visualization skills. Some key differences are that data scientists often have a broader focus on solving real-world problems, while statisticians usually have more of a focused towards math, forming hypotheses, and developing statistical models. Also, data scientists and statisticians are often employed by different industries. Although this can vary, some common industries employing data scientists are finance, marketing, and healthcare, while statisticians are often work in government or academics.

**How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?**
I believe I could potentially fall into either of these two categories, but I am leaning more towards the data scientist group. As much as I really enjoy understanding and digging into the math behind a process, what I feel like I am more drawn to is coming to interesting conclusions based on data that actually make you learn something new about whatever it is you are analyzing.
